>> Brian Holt: So I want you now to go to
SearchParams.js,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna make all the buttons
use our ThemeContext.
So at the top here, I want you to import
ThemeContext from './ThemeContext'.
>> Brian Holt: And we're also gonna get
another hook from React called useContext.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then up here underneath pets,
we're gonna say const Theme.
And keep in mind that this also
comes with a setTheme as well.
But we're not gonna use the setTheme,
so I'm just not gonna grab it.
So const [theme] = useContext
>> Brian Holt: (ThemeContext).
>> Brian Holt: So again,
ThemeContext could be anything.
This could be an object, it doesn't
necessarily have to be an array or
a hook or anything like that.
They're just convenient to
use with each other, but
they are more flexible than that.
>> Brian Holt: So now, I have this theme,
which is available to use,
so I'm gonna go down to my button.
>> Brian Holt: Here, at this Submit
button, I'm gonna say style = and
just do some inline CSS
like a professional.
[LAUGH] Just kidding, don't do this.
>> Brian Holt: So typically, you would
expect this to be color: blank or
something like that, right?
React makes it a little bit easier,
that you can just keep it an object.
So I'm just gonna say
color: theme like that.
Now notice there are two curly
braces next to each other, but
notice they're colored differently,
that's because this is an object, right?
And this is the JavaScript
expression from JSX thing.
So it's not that two curly braces next
to each other have any sort of special
meaning in JSX.
That just happens to be how that looks.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so, now if you
go over and look at our project.
Sorry, you don't want color,
you want background color.
I mean notice it still worked, right?
The color of this is blue, but
that's not what I intended.
I intended this to be backgroundColor.
>> Brian Holt: And there you go,
now it's dark blue.
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about, I mean,
obviously this was a lot of ritual to
get very little benefit out of it, but
let's talk about why this was important.
I have App.js here on the top, right,
which I've wrapped in this theme provider.
And then inside of SearchParams, notice I
haven't passed anything into SearchParams.
Typically, you would have
had to do something like
themeColor = , right?
And you'd have to do the same thing with
details and pass it into every individual
piece of your application that
read from the theme, right?
That's burdensome, right?
You get to a certain point where it gets
more burdensome than it's useful, right?
So that's where these
contexts are super useful.
That instead of having to pass
this explicitly into SearchParams,
now I can go into SearchParams.
SearchParams, and
I can read off of the context.
Now I could have infinite
layers between me and
the provider and it still works, right?
It just happens to be that it's the
immediate parent that has a provider but
there could be 17 layers.
And actually, if you look at the reach
router code inside of your Explorer,
let's actually just look at that
right now, Inspect Element.
React, they use context everywhere.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see there
are context provider for ref,
context consumer.
They have a bunch of stuff in here,
context consumer,
context consumer, context provider.
There's a bunch of layers of consumers and
providers.
That all has to do with context.
>> Brian Holt: So it's really easy to use
with useContext, which is a hook, right?
>> Brian Holt: Before we move
on to how to deal with classes,
does anyone have any questions
about what you've seen so far?
>> Speaker 2: So to use the useContext,
the context provider has to be a parent?
>> Brian Holt: Yep.